---
title: "Principles"

date: 2020-10-06T08:49:31+00:00
lastmod: 2020-10-06T08:49:31+00:00
draft: true
images: []
menu:
  docs:
    parent: "other"
weight: 630
toc: true
---

The following principles are guiding the opinions behind this
documentation.

## Precision {#Precision}

Let\'s defend against the ambiguity of risk language.

Too often we find ourselves speaking about [completely different
subjects](https://plato.stanford.edu/entries/risk/) when we discuss
\"Risk\".

We must protect ourselves from letting conversations about risk slip
into wildly unaligned conversations comparable to unstructured debates
about love, or art.

Risk has quantitative foundations we can agree on. We can pursue
scientific goals while acknowledging that the \"undesirable\" aspect of
risk may be wholly subjective.

The opinion of this documentation is that risk discussions should be
structured around [scenarios](/simple-risk/docs/risk/scenarios)

## Locality

Let\'s make risk measurement accessible to those closest to the
mitigation.

Measurement is quickly disposed if it is too cumbersome to wield. An
engineer tasked with risk mitigation should be able to measure their
work efficiently.

If the cost of measurement is too much for an individual, it likely
won\'t employed by engineers directly involved where risk is created.

The efforts involved with risk measurement should rarely exceed what can
be easily learned with basic math.

## Universality {#Universality}

Remove industry specific instructions from risk measurement.

Industry specific language leads to bias, prescription, and industry
agendas.

Risk is a universal aspect of many disciplines and measurement should be
commonly described.

## Validation

Let\'s celebrate the \"post mortem\" to support validated learning.

We must invest in infrastructure to observe and share failures to better
inform us about risks.

Our goal is to measurably progress away from uncertainty and reduce our
reliance on experts.

Catch up to industries with retrospective infrastructure.
([Meteorology](https://www.ncdc.noaa.gov/data-access),
[Nuclear](https://www.nrc.gov/reading-rm/doc-collections/event-status/event/),
and [Chemical](https://www.csb.gov/investigations/))

## Limitation {#Limitation}

Assume that we\'ll have failures of imagination.

Our models will be wrong. We will invest in incident response and
retrospective processes.

We\'ll have our umbrellas nearby whether we predict rain or not.

## Relativity

Let\'s appreciate that risk is a single decision making factor.

Leadership still has to consider non-risk data in everyday decision
making.

Risk measurement does not make decisions, people do.

## Irrationality

Let\'s assume that fully quantitative workplaces do not exist.

Some environments are just starting to measure risk under a variety of
limitations.
